Hi, everyone.
Welcome to session 602,
Delivering Web Content on
High Resolution Displays.
I'm Beth Dakin,
and I'm an engineer on the
Safari and WebKit team.
Remember when monitors
use to look like this?
It really wasn't so long ago.
Everything was grainy,
and you could literally count
pixels without squinting
or leaning into the screen.
Oh, those were the days.
Okay, not really.
These are the days.
Screen resolutions got better
and better with incremental
improvements to cinema displays,
better and better resolutions to our
notebook displays over the years.
But we've really reached the pinnacle of
this technology with the retina displays.
If you've watched any of the videos
on Apple.com about how these are made,
then you know that they're designed
to have pixels so small and so close
together that the human eye is not
capable of distinguishing these pixels.
The result is a display
that's a huge improvement over
displays made only a year ago,
and it's just light
years away from that CRT.
Text is so crisp,
it's like you're reading
a book on real paper.
Apps and games come alive.
And browsing the web is
a cinematic experience.
Well, most of the time.
But often you'll find yourself
on a web page like this one,
where that photorealistic
illusion is broken by this fuzzy
low-resolution image taking up
such a prominent space on the page.
This is a moment that really disrupts
an otherwise amazing experience.
Today, I'm going to teach you how to fix
this and make your web content
look perfect on retina displays.
Safari on the Mac and on iOS and many,
many other apps on those
platforms are powered by WebKit.
Most of you are probably at least
a little familiar with WebKit,
but in case you're not,
it's the web rendering engine that
powers Safari on all platforms.
It's open source,
and it's responsible for loading,
parsing, interpreting, rendering,
and managing web content
in Safari and in many,
many other apps.
WebKit actually does a great
job on these retina displays.
Everything that WebKit draws from
scratch looks razor sharp out of the box.
So things like text, form controls,
other things like borders.
Anything that WebKit draws
itself just looks amazing.
Other things like SVG graphics.
But there are certain elements
that are kind of like little
black boxes to a web browser.
It doesn't draw them from scratch.
It displays them as they are provided.
And the images are just like that.
WebKit can only do as good a job
as the original source material.
So in other words,
WebKit can't make a low-resolution
image look like a high-resolution image.
Today we'll cover four main topics.
First, I want to give you the foundation
to understand what's going on
at the software level on these
retina displays so that you can
understand the problem with images.
Then I'll teach you how to
banish those blurry images.
Next, we'll discuss the Canvas element.
Canvas is a great way to add
dynamic graphics to your websites,
apps, and digital books.
Underneath the hood,
it's just implemented with a
backing store that's a bitmap,
like an image.
So you do have to take care
to make sure you're creating a
high-resolution backing store when
you're targeting a retina display.
Finally,
I hope that this talk inspires all of
you to go out and generate and integrate
new versions of all of the artwork
that you use in your web content.
But if that seems like a
whole lot of work because you
have a whole lot of images,
then I'm going to remind you about
some great technologies that you can
often use in place of images and make
WebKit do all of that heavy lifting
for you and make things automatically
look perfect on retina displays.
Okay, so let's begin with that foundation
of what's happening on these retina
displays at the software level.
I want to cover two topics here.
I want to tell you about
the software scale factor,
and I want to tell you why
images require special attention.
So for many years,
as screen resolutions improved just
through these incremental improvements,
it was a common thing that you
would notice that UI would get
a little bit smaller each time.
And it makes sense if you had
a UI element that took up,
say, 100 pixels,
then as those pixels on the device
got smaller and closer together,
the amount of space that 100
pixels took up would be smaller.
But on a retina display,
the pixels are way smaller
and way closer together.
This is a way more significant
improvement than we've ever seen before.
For every pixel that
you have on an iPad 2,
there are four in the same
place on the new iPad.
So if we continued to let those
100-pixel UI elements continue to take
up just 100 of these physical pixels,
things would be impossibly small.
But as you know,
things are not impossibly small.
And that's because at the most basic
level graphics context on the system,
there's a scale factor of two in
place on all current retina displays.
So the whole user interface is
being scaled up by a factor of two.
On Mac OS X,
this is a per-window concept.
So if you have a retina
MacBook Pro hooked up to an external
display that's just a normal display,
then the display on your
retina MacBook Pro will have
that scale factor built in,
and the external display will just
have a normal scale factor of one,
kind of like not scaling at all.
And as you drag windows
between the two displays,
they'll update automatically to either
have that scale factor or not have it.
So a whole UI scaled
up by a factor of two.
And that's great for native apps.
But what about your web apps
where you've meticulously laid
things out according to pixels?
Well, it turns out they're
going to be just fine.
CSS was designed with a future
in mind where pixels vary
across different devices.
So when you talk about one pixel
or one PX in your style sheets,
you're not talking about one piece
of phosphorus soldered to silicon.
You're talking about a relative
unit of measurement in the web page.
Now, that may be surprising because
historically on the Mac,
we did happen to map one CSS pixel
to one pixel on the device.
So it would be easy to conflate the two.
But even then,
that was only some of the time.
The equivalency obviously
doesn't continue to hold
once you start zooming in.
So when you pinch to zoom or
double tap on a Mac with a
trackpad or an iOS device,
the web page appears to get bigger
because underneath the hood,
there's a scale factor applied
to all of those CSS units.
So really, you're already used to this
world where CSS pixels are
relative units in the web page.
And you've seen for yourself that this
doesn't break layouts or anything,
that it all works.
So not only that, but on iOS, by default,
we actually scale all web pages
down to fit in the viewport.
So let me explain viewport
just for a minute.
I think this is a pretty good example
to illustrate what's happening.
I have this div here with
a width of 320 pixels.
So if you're familiar with
the iPhone screen size,
you may know that it's 320 by 480.
So you may expect this div
to fill the screen in mobile
Safari horizontally when I load
this snippet of HTML in the browser.
But as you can see,
it does not fill the screen horizontally.
It takes up only about
a third of the width.
And the reason for that is viewport.
Most websites were designed with big,
resizable browser windows in mind.
And so Mobile Safari assumes
a width of 980 pixels and then
scales that down to fit within the
actual screen size of the device,
320 pixels.
And you end up with this
crazy fractional scale factor.
And again, this is all viewport scaling.
So if you had retina scaling in place,
that'd be a separate thing.
It's a crazy number.
Don't need to worry about it.
[Transcript missing]
Okay,
so that's the software scale factor,
and you'll hear me and many other people
refer to this by many other names,
and I apologize if that's confusing,
but display scale factor,
device scale factor.
If you're over in AppKit land,
you might hear backing scale factor.
You'll hear me say device pixel ratio.
All of these things
refer to the same thing.
It's referring to that number
two on a retina display where
the whole UI is scaled up by two,
and on a standard display,
it would just be one,
whatever that scale factor is.
Okay, so now I want to talk about images,
but to do that,
I actually want to step back first
and talk about why other elements
look great on retina displays.
So consider this simple div,
10-pixel by 10-pixel div,
on a standard display,
so a normal MacBook Pro like the
one you have in front of you.
And this is that sort of idyllic
old-school environment where one
CSS pixel did happen to correspond
directly to one pixel on the device.
If I were to draw a grid over this
div representing the CSS pixels,
it would look like this: 10 by 10 pixels,
10 in each direction.
And again, because this is that
old-school environment,
if I were to draw a grid
representing the device pixels,
it would be identical.
But now let's consider the same
div on a retina MacBook Pro.
The CSS pixels would look the same.
Again, they're relative units,
so these things don't change between
the non-retina and retina case.
But the device pixels have
doubled underneath that.
And this is what makes everything
that WebKit draws look so sharp.
We can take advantage of those extra
pixels and make the curves on text,
like in the letter S or the letter B,
look as smooth as silk.
Now let's talk about images.
So really we're talking about
raster images or bitmap images here,
things like pings, tiffs, JPEGs.
We're not talking about vector images,
which are different.
But all raster images
have an intrinsic size.
And this image has 400
by 250 pixels in it.
It's a certain number of pixels.
So, quick side note here.
Photoshop encourages this idea
that you can somehow control the
resolution independence of an
image file if you set its DPI,
the dots per inch, in other words.
This is not really a good thing
to think about in terms of images,
and it doesn't really make sense.
This adds some metadata to the file,
but it doesn't actually add
any additional pixel data.
So,
It just doesn't make sense to think
of DPI in terms of images because
how tightly packed those pixels
will be depends entirely on the
display that's viewing the image and
it depends entirely on the container
you choose to put the image inside.
This bit of metadata
can't really control that.
So it's best not to consider
that when you're thinking about
creating high-resolution images.
Just think about the number
of pixels in the image,
the width and the height.
So that's what we'll do here.
This image has 400 by 250 pixels
in it and it will look best if
it's displayed using the exact same
number of pixels on the display.
This is something we're going
to keep coming back to so
I really want to emphasize it.
This image will look best if
it's displayed using the same
number of device pixels as the
actual image file has available.
So if I were to add this
image to my website,
I would probably write some
HTML that looks like this.
And here's what that would look like
on a standard non-retina display.
And here I've set up a viewport
so there's no additional
viewport scaling happening here.
So I have a one-to-one
correspondence between all of my
CSS pixels and my device pixels.
Each of my image pixels gets to
render into exactly one device pixel.
We're seeing the image in full
fidelity and its full glory.
So just to recap that,
we have a certain CSS size,
and our display is providing the
exact same number of actual physical
device pixels within that CSS size.
And that happens to be the
exact number of pixels we have
available in our image as well.
Now let's consider this same
HTML snippet on a retina display.
Here the image looks blurry.
And the reason for that is that we
have the same CSS size as before,
but the number of device pixels
underneath that have actually quadrupled.
And we still have only 400 by
250 image pixels to work with.
So the underlying graphics library is
forced to try to scale this image up.
It's filling in the details that
it doesn't know somewhat randomly.
Unknown details are colored in,
and the result is an
image that looks fuzzy.
So now I want to teach you
how to fix this problem.
So that takes us right
into the next section.
The basic idea here is that you want
to take all of your existing images,
and you want to generate new
versions that are twice the size,
twice the number of pixels.
And then you want to declare
what you have available.
And then depending on the
technique that you choose to use,
either WebKit will choose the best image
for the display or you'll explicitly
tell WebKit which image to use.
And you'll end up with something
that looks great on a retina display.
We'll discuss three
techniques for achieving this.
First, I'll tell you about CSS sizing and
then querying for device scale.
And finally,
I'll tell you about a new option
we have in WebKit called Image Set.
We'll get to that in just a few minutes.
For each of these techniques,
we'll grade them in three categories.
We'll see how they are with performance.
By performance,
I mean memory performance,
also speed performance,
and even graphical performance,
how things look.
We'll discuss how simple it
is to integrate this technique
into existing web content.
And finally,
we'll discuss if the technique
works across different browsers.
Okay, so let's begin with CSS sizing.
To do that,
I want to jump right back into that
example we were just considering,
where we have an image
that's 400 by 250 pixels,
but we have four times the
number of device pixels to fill.
So the way to integrate the
CSS sizing technique here is really
just to leave everything the same,
but change the URL of the SRC attribute
to point to a high-resolution
version of the image that actually
has 800 by 500 pixels in it.
So the key to this is that I have not
changed the width and height attributes,
because I still want this image to
take up the same amount of space
relative to other elements on the page.
But I've provided an image
resource with enough data to
fill all the device pixels.
that are actually available
within that space.
So there are a number of other ways
to integrate images into web content
besides just using the IMG element,
and CSS sizing is something you can
do for any of those different ways.
Most similar to the IMG element is
just using the CSS content property.
So here you can provide content that's
an image using the URL function,
and then I'm just going to use
the width and height properties
to set the size of that image,
very similar to the width and height
attributes on the previous screen,
which were also supplied in CSS Pixels,
I should note.
That's the units here.
And then for background images,
you can size the image using
the background size property.
If you have an image that repeats,
then the background size represents
the size of each tile in the repeat.
Finally,
you can do this for border image as well.
It's a little bit trickier with
border image because you have to use
two properties in conjunction with
one another to get the sizing right.
On top of that,
they're expressed in different units.
You use border width,
which is expressed in CSS pixels.
That makes it very similar to width
and height and background size.
Anything expressed in CSS pixels is not
going to change whether it's a 1x image
or a 2x image for a retina display.
These things will remain the same.
However, border image slices,
these units are not CSS pixels.
These are pixels in
the actual image file.
They're in the image's coordinate space.
So if the actual image changes in size,
then the values of the
slices will also change.
We'll come back to this in a few minutes
when we're talking about media queries.
Okay, so you should always give
your images a size in CSS.
And in fact,
you'll need to do that in order to
be successful with the other two
techniques I'm going to tell you about
in a minute with querying or image set.
But the idea of doing only that as a
technique to integrate high-resolution
images is that you always use that
high-resolution image resource.
So let's grade this technique of always
using high-resolution images as a way
to make your web content retina savvy.
How is it with performance?
Well, it's pretty bad with performance.
It's really bad for performance,
actually.
When you use this technique,
you'll be sending those really large
image files to all of your users,
even your users without retina displays.
So this is going to create
really long download times
for users on older devices.
Those images are going to take
up a lot more space and memory.
Retina devices can handle that.
They're built to handle
large image files,
so the memory hits not as bad there.
But a user on an iPhone 3GS having
a big image file loaded into memory,
or many of them, could be a real burden.
On top of that, you won't be delivering a
full fidelity image experience
to all of your users either.
Your retina users will be getting
that full fidelity experience,
but everyone on an older display,
they'll be kind of experiencing the
opposite of the image scaling up.
The image here will be scaled down to fit
in a much smaller space because the image
will have way more pixel data than the
device will have available to display.
So the graphics library will have
to choose which pixels to leave out.
It's not a full fidelity experience.
The result is not nearly as bad
as when you scale up an image,
but it's still not perfect.
However, this technique is very simple
and it works across all browsers,
so it does still have some merits.
Okay,
so you may remember earlier I was telling
you about the software scale factor
that's in place on all Retina devices,
scale factor of two.
So with this technique of
querying for the device scale,
you use a technique to query for
exactly what that device scale
factor or software scale factor is,
and then you choose which images
to load based on the result.
And the first way to do
this is with media queries,
which have been around for a while.
Media queries are a way to provide or
to define CSS rules that will apply
conditionally based on characteristics
of the device viewing the content.
So here I've created
two media query blocks,
one to specify styles that
I want to apply when the
content is viewed on a screen,
and a separate block to specify
different styles that I want to
apply when the content is printed.
This is a long-standing
way to use media queries.
They've also become popular in
recent years as a way to target
styles toward iPhone or iPad.
And the most common way to do that
is to query for the device width,
which is in CSS pixels, I should note.
So here I have one block looking
for that device width of 320,
so it's targeting iPhone,
and then targeting iPad
with a device width of 768.
And now you can query for that
device scale factor as well.
So here I've set up two
different media query blocks.
My first one is looking for
a device pixel ratio of one.
This means all standard
non-retina displays.
This is a display where that
software scale factor is just one.
And in my second media query,
I'm looking for a minimum
device pixel ratio of two.
So this will apply to all current
retina devices and any future
devices that happen to have an
even higher software scale factor.
The way that people usually use this,
in the case for targeting
retina or non-retina displays,
is to put most styles up
in a common style block.
Because most things aren't going
to change for the retina or
non-retina version of your site.
You really just need to
change those image URLs.
So I even have my
background size up here,
because that CSS Pixel,
and it's not going to change.
And then down in the media queries,
I'm just defining my normal sized image
and my 2x image for the two different
types of devices that I'm targeting.
So there are a number of cool
things about media queries.
First of all,
the CSS engine won't even evaluate
the query if it doesn't apply to
the device viewing the content.
So you'll always only download
the image targeted for the device.
You don't have to worry about
downloading both images.
You're always going to get the
correct image for that device.
On top of that,
media queries will update dynamically
if that device scale factor changes.
So in other words,
if you have that Retina MacBook Pro in
a multi-monitor scenario where
one monitor has a 1x scale factor,
because it's a standard old display,
and the other monitor
is the built-in display,
which has the 2x scale factor,
your media queries will
re-evaluate as you drag the
windows between those two displays.
So you'll always get the
image that's targeted to the
display that the content is on.
A less verbose way to write this
code would be to write it like this.
Here I'm putting the 1x image
URL up in the common style block,
and then I'm overriding it with a
media query for retina displays.
And you still don't have to worry about
both images being downloaded here.
You'll override that before
any downloading happens.
So you're still getting the
image targeted for the display.
Another benefit here is that this will
actually target any displays that have
a device scale factor between 1 and 2.
And all current Apple devices have
a device scale factor of 1 or 2.
But you never know with future devices
or devices from other manufacturers.
So here I have, again,
the image URL for the 1x image
in the common style block.
I have to make sure, though,
that I write that code in that order.
If I accidentally were to put
the media query block first,
then I wouldn't end up getting that
retina targeted image on my retina
display because I would end up overriding
it later with my normal 1x image.
So this is just something to
be a little bit careful with
when you're using media queries.
I mentioned border image earlier.
I just want to bring it up
again here quickly because of
the complication with slices.
So here I again have
a common style block.
I can put the border width here.
That won't change.
But then I will need to redefine two
pieces of information instead of just
the URL for the image in my media query.
I need to redefine the
slices as well because,
again, these are in terms of the
image's coordinate space.
So if the image changes,
the slice values will change as well.
Just something to be aware of.
It's a pretty common technique
on websites with many images
to load them in JavaScript.
And if that's something that you do,
then you can still query for what this
device scale factor is and choose which
images to load based on the result.
So here I'm evaluating a
CSS media query in JavaScript.
And then I'm deciding whether
I want the retina version of
my image or the regular one.
I could also use the
window.devicePixelRatio property.
This will directly return whatever
the current software scale factor is.
So again,
it will return one on all standard
displays and two on all retina displays.
One of the cool things that
I mentioned about CSS media queries
is that they will update dynamically
if the scale factor changes,
like in a multi-monitor scenario.
So to hook into that goodness if
you're doing this through JavaScript,
you have to be careful and make
sure that you add this event
listener for match media for
this device pixel ratio changing.
If you do this,
then you can also make sure that
the images will update dynamically.
Okay, so let's grade this technique.
So this is great for performance.
I mentioned a lot of this as we were
going through how to use media queries,
but these are great for performance.
You always only get the image
that's targeted for the device.
They'll update dynamically
so you can always provide
a full fidelity experience.
They work really well.
However,
this is not a super simple technique,
also for reasons that I mentioned
as we were going through.
You have to be careful when you're
using CSS media queries that
everything's in the right order.
That can be a little bit error-prone.
You have to be careful with border image,
that you redefine the slices.
You have to sort of think about that
and grok that they're in different
coordinates than CSS pixels.
And if you're doing
it through JavaScript,
you have to remember to
implement that event listener.
There are a lot of
things to keep straight,
admittedly.
It is, however, a cross-browser solution.
I was using the -webkit
prefix on those slides,
but this media query is also
implemented in Firefox and
Opera with the -moz and -o prefixes,
respectively.
Opera has a slightly different syntax
that you'll have to look up online.
But overall,
this is a perfectly good technique
to target all of the major
browsers that you could be using
on your Retina MacBook Pro.
Okay, so now I would like to
tell you about ImageSet.
This is a new CSS function that
we came up with here at Apple for
a more elegant solution to the
high-resolution image problem.
We've proposed it to
the CSS Working Group,
and it's currently scheduled to be
a part of the Images Level 4 module.
So this slide should look familiar.
This is a media query.
Here I'm using a media query
to set up a background image.
And you may recall all of the reasons
why this is great for performance.
You're always getting the image
that's targeted for the device.
The image will update dynamically
for a multi-monitor scenario.
Well,
to get all of that goodness with much
less code and much less error-proneness,
you can just use the new
WebKit image set function.
So everywhere in your style sheets
where you're currently using the
URL function to point to an image,
you can instead use the WebKit image
set function to list multiple URLs,
as many as you like.
And for each URL, you'll provide an
associated scale factor.
This tips WebKit off to know
what that image is appropriate
for and how big it is.
It doesn't have to download the
image to know what its size is.
It can see from your scale factor
the 2x image must be twice the size.
In this way,
things will update dynamically.
You'll only ever download
what's targeted to the device.
This is new in Safari 6 and
Safari on iOS 6 as well.
This also greatly
simplifies border image,
where you had to think about
that slice information before.
Now, in addition to just taking
up less space with the URLs,
you also only have to
define the slices once.
You can just define them
in terms of the 1x image,
and then WebKit will
extrapolate from there,
based on the scale factors
that you've provided,
what the slice values should be for the
higher resolution versions of the image.
Okay, so let's grade this new image set
function on our little chart here.
This is great for performance.
It has all those same performance
characteristics of media queries.
It's also very simple.
You're just replacing the URL function
anywhere that you're using it with
the WebKit image set function,
providing a tiny bit more information.
Sadly, at this time,
it's not cross-browser.
It's only implemented in WebKit.
However, we are taking this through
the standardization route,
so we anticipate other browsers
picking up on this and implementing it.
So we anticipate this
X turning into a checkmark.
So looking at this graph,
it may still be difficult to
determine when you should use
which of these techniques which
is right for you and your content.
So let's talk about that.
So you may recall CSS sizing has
all of these performance issues,
but it's still an OK technique
to consider if you have a
small number of local images.
Local meaning they're
already on the device,
so if you're an app or a book.
You're still going to
pay that memory cost,
which is why we recommend really
only a small number of images here.
Media queries are great for many images,
and they're great for websites in
addition to apps and books since they
have a really good cross-browser story.
ImageSet is great for any
number of images as well,
and it's great if
you're targeting WebKit.
It's actually OK even if you're a website
that wants to work in many browsers
because CSS degrades so gracefully.
So other browsers would
just ignore this rule,
and you would still get your
high-resolution images into
any WebKit-based browsers.
Okay, so hopefully now you all have a
full understanding of what you need
to do to integrate high-resolution
artwork into your websites.
Now I'd like to talk about Canvas,
and to do that,
I would like to invite Dean Jackson,
my third favorite colleague,
up to the stage.
This time last year I was ninth,
so... Okay,
so the example that Beth showed before,
it was pretty clear to demonstrate the
significant difference in quality between
a photograph and the extremely crisp
text that was displayed alongside it.
And then Beth gave you a number of
techniques to banish those blurry images.
But it turns out that photographs,
in fact, aren't always the types of
images that are in most need of
improvement for written display.
In fact, HTML Canvas is a great example
of something that needs a
little bit more attention.
So let's examine why.
So here I have a photograph
of a three-headed alien from
the planet Anthropologie.
And actually,
this photograph is many times bigger
than the size of this projector,
which is 19-20 across.
But the photograph still looks good.
In fact,
even when I scale it down 50% again,
it still looks great.
You can pick up a lot of detail.
When I zoom it up to show it
at one-to-one pixel ratio,
here we focus on the vicious
teeth of this creature.
You can see there's a lot more
detail in the photograph than was
shown when it was scaled down.
Now I'm going to replace it
by an image that's the exact
same region of the photograph,
but in this time I'm only going
to use 256 pixels -- sorry,
240 pixels across and see if
you can notice the difference.
Full resolution, and there's the one.
So here you've got something that's eight
times -- basically scaled up eight times.
And it still looks okay.
And that's because your brain and your
eyes are pretty good at fooling you into
sort of de-blurring the image itself.
Now when we take that photograph and
overlay it with an admittedly fake
UI for a photo editing application,
we'll see that it's these types of
synthetic or dynamically generated
images that are in most need of scaling.
So here the photograph still looks fine,
but if I zoom in on the UI elements,
you can see starting to see, like,
the chunks of text -- in this case,
the text being drawn
directly into the image.
The icons in particular looked
pretty terrible at high resolution.
And here is a good example where
the straight lines have become
these sort of stair steps,
and in fact the anti-aliasing of the
horizontal lines is starting to look
awkward because the gaps between
the lines have been interpolated.
So that brings us to Canvas.
These are the types of
images we want to talk about.
So what is Canvas?
It's a technique that was invented
by Apple a few years ago to allow
you to dynamically generate images
in JavaScript in the browser.
Since then, it's become one of the most
popular features in HTML5.
People use it for maps and
decorations and games and
charts and all sorts of things.
And Apple uses it for a
few things in Dashboard,
for example, the stocks widget and the
flight widget and the clock.
So our goal for this part is to show
you how to create your Canvas to be as
best as possible on a retina display.
What do we got to cover?
So first we have to describe
how the Canvas actually
works on a retina display.
Then we're going to talk about
how to improve your Canvas.
And lastly, we're going to just show,
in most cases,
you don't need to change your code,
but there are some cases where
you need to update your code.
So let's start with how does
Canvas behave on a retina display.
And we'll start, in fact,
by describing how a regular image works.
So Canvas doesn't have an image element.
It typically starts with a referenced
file somewhere on the web or on
a disk if you're a native app.
And this file is a JPEG or a PNG.
And the browser's got to read
that file and decode it into
a rectangular array of pixels.
Each pixel represents a color.
When it comes time to draw,
it takes that rectangular array
and basically puts it into another
rectangular region on the screen.
And sometimes it has to
squish or stretch that array,
making up pixels, as Beth said,
taking an educated guess.
Canvas is, in fact, exactly the same,
except instead of coming
from an image file,
we have something called a backing store.
So it's actually JavaScript that's got
to tell the browser what the rectangular
array of pixels is going to be sized at.
In this case, I've just said 400 by 250.
And it starts off blank,
so we need to write some more
JavaScript that's going to set the
color of every one of those pixels.
And there's a whole bunch
of commands to do that,
and basically you end up with
the same rectangular array.
And from that point on,
it's exactly the same.
When we come to draw,
we take that and squish it
and stretch it into the page.
age.
The goal, as with images for Canvas,
is to always have the same number
of pixels in your backing store
or your image pixels as you do
in the device pixels when you
actually display it on the screen.
So let's talk about what happens
on a normal resolution display.
So let's imagine I've got a canvas
that's sized at 400 by 250 CSS pixels.
Now, on a non-retina display,
without this viewport scale
or without the user zooming,
that's going to cover 400 by
250 pixels on the display,
and unsurprisingly,
this means you want a canvas
size of 400 by 250 pixels.
So this bit of code is really simple.
We're going to come
back to it a few times.
This is the easy case.
I start with some global variables that
define my width and height in CSS pixels.
Then I go to get a reference
to my canvas element.
And the next I want to set the width
and height of the canvas element
to what the global variables were.
Now, this is important.
It's not actually changing the
size of the canvas on the page.
It's telling the browser how many
pixels it needs in its backing store.
So in this case,
it's going to create this rectangular
array of 400 by 250 pixels,
which is exactly what we wanted.
When we come to draw,
canvas has a whole set of
commands for doing drawing.
I'm not going to cover them.
But in this case,
we just want to keep this
one in mind as an example.
I want to just draw a square
in the page that's covering 30
CSS pixels by 30 CSS pixels.
That's it.
So that was the easy case.
Let's talk about a retina case.
We'll start with retina on
OS X because retina on iPad is
like just so eight weeks ago.
Now, the canvas size is exactly the same,
400 by 250 pixels.
But when we display that,
as Beth mentioned,
we're using a technique
called pixel doubling.
So in fact,
it's going to cover 800 by 500 pixels.
And because it's scaling
that original size up,
it's going to look blurry unless
we actually allocate 800 by 500
pixels in our backing store.
Once we do that,
we actually get the nice output at the
right size in the page in our canvas.
So on OS X,
We want, again,
400 by 250 pixel-sized canvas to end
up with an 800 by 500 backing store.
And the good news is, on OS X,
you don't actually have to do anything.
We're doing the work for you.
So the system's going to detect
that I'm on a Retina display,
and we wanted all the web pages out there
in the world to look better on these new
MacBook Pros without any code change.
So behind the scenes,
WebKit is actually going to say, okay,
Retina display,
I'm going to allocate twice as many
backing store pixels as the user asked
for and produce the better display.
So, in fact,
our code hasn't changed at all.
Still got the global variables,
400 by 250, but down here,
when we actually request the width
and height exactly the same as before,
the system's going to say, well,
they asked for 400,
but I know they really want
800 to make it look good.
We now got a bigger backing store.
Well, why don't we have to change our
drawing code because otherwise things
will come-- will appear very small.
It turns out we actually take care
of that for you automatically.
So before we start drawing,
we apply a scale factor to all
your commands so that everything's
going to come out twice the size,
drawn with the best quality
into the backing store.
So again, here, our 30 by 30 square is,
in fact, going to cover 60 by 60
pixels in the backing store.
So Canvas on OS X means with the
exact same code on a normal display,
you get to get the output.
With no changes,
you get a much better quality
on the retina display,
and that's fantastic.
But you probably know that there's
a couple hundred million devices out
there with existing retina displays,
and that's iOS.
And the story's a little
bit different there,
so we're going to go through this now.
So you're probably sick of this slide,
but again, 400 by 250 pixel canvas.
We want it to be 800 by
500 backing store pixels.
But on retina on iOS,
the system isn't going to automatically
double the backing store for you.
So why did we make this decision?
There's basically two reasons.
One is the very nature of these
devices is that the web content isn't
always viewed at the one-to-one scale.
Typically,
there's a viewport or the user is
pinched to zoom or panned around.
And it's quite often that the size you've
actually decided to render your page,
it's not exactly how it's going to
be displayed on the user's device.
The other thing is that memory use and
CPU performance and battery life is
much more precious on these devices.
So we wanted to make sure that
we didn't automatically double
things and use up the resources.
And it's up to you, the developer,
to choose how big you
want your backing store.
So in this case, I have to manually
double my backing store.
I have to detect that I'm on a retina.
I have to detect that I'm on a retina
display in order to decide whether
I need to double my backing store.
And I do this with the property device
pixel ratio that Beth mentioned before.
So this is the scaling factor between
normal pixels and the retina pixels.
So it's one on a normal device
and two on another device.
So if the device pixel
ratio is undefined to one,
you're on a non-retina device.
If it's two,
then you're on a retina device.
So this allows me to write
this little bit of code,
and I'm going to come
back to it a few times,
which is effectively telling me
how much I want to scale my canvas
by or my backing store canvas
by and how much I want to scale
my back-to-back store canvas by.
So in this case,
it's a bit more complicated
than it needs to be,
but you'll get the point that if
my device pixel ratio is around,
then that's the scale factor I use.
So,
now the code is just slightly different.
I've added -- that's the same
and I've added a global variable
which is my backing scale.
I've used the function just
on the previous slide to
work out the scale factor,
and then down below when
I allocate my canvas,
I'm actually going to use that
multiplying factor -- or use that
factor to multiply the width and
height that I ask for my backing store.
So, in this case,
it would be two by 400 or two by 250,
800 by 500 canvas,
we've got what we want.
But there's a problem,
and some of you might have
picked up what the problem is.
If I run this exact code on OS X,
what's going to happen is that
I'm now specifically asking for
an 800 by 500 backing store,
and the system is going to say, well,
I'm on a Retina device,
I'll auto double it for you and
actually give you 1600 by 1000,
which is going to be four
times bigger than you wanted,
in fact, 16 times bigger than what
you originally asked for.
So you need to be very careful that
if you're on a system that's manually
doubling the backing store size for you,
you need to detect that.
So how do we detect it?
There's another property,
which is the WebKit Backing
Store Pixel Ratio.
So whereas the device pixel ratio told
you the multiplying factor between a
normal pixel and the display pixel,
the WebKit Backing Store Pixel Ratio
tells you the multiplying factor
between how many pixels you asked
for in your backing store and how
many it's actually going to give you.
If the back-and-stall pixel
ratio is undefined or 1,
it would be undefined on a browser
that doesn't support this property,
you're on a system that
does not auto-double,
so that could be a non-retina
device or an iOS device.
And if the WebKit back-and-stall
pixel ratio is 2,
then you're on a system that
auto-doubles whatever you request,
an OS X retina device.
So this is getting a bit complicated,
so we'll just draw it as a flow chart.
The first question
you're going to ask is,
am I on a retina device?
If I'm not on a retina device,
then I don't have to do anything.
No scale needed.
If I am on a retina device,
then the next question I have to ask is,
is the system going to
auto-double the pixels for me?
If it's not, then I have to manually
double the pixels.
I'm on an iOS retina device.
If it does auto-double the pixels,
then I, again, don't have to do anything,
but I'm on a retina OS X device.
So we flip this question
around to actually ask,
what scaling factor do I need to apply?
The answer is 1, 2, 1, and 1,
we don't have to do anything,
and in fact, they're the same.
So the really only case we
need to worry about is this.
Am I on a retina device?
Yes.
And is the system going to
auto-double the pixels for me?
No.
In which case, multiply by 2.
So I'm going to update my
code that I had before,
and again,
there's many ways you can write this.
This is the way I chose it.
If the device pixel
ratio is greater than 1,
I'm on retina.
Or if the context WebKit back-install
pixel ratio is less than 2,
I'm not auto-doubling.
Then return the scaling factor
that the screen is using.
I'm going to use this function
again in the same code.
Instead of -- I'm going to declare
the variable initially to be nothing,
and down below,
I need to actually have the context to
decide whether it's going to auto-double.
So here I set the global
variable to be the scale factor,
which will be 2 on an iOS
retina device and 1 elsewhere.
And now I can just use this same code,
so I'll get the right
result on an OS X device.
Now we're in a situation
where some devices actually
have a doubled backing store,
some have an automatically
doubled backing store,
and the drawing is taken care of,
so I have to take care of the fact
where I'm actually manually drawing
into a doubled backing store,
otherwise everything's going
to appear really small and up
in the top left-hand corner.
So I do this first in my,
this is my entry point
to the draw function.
I'm going to save the
state of the drawing,
the context as it is right now.
I'm going to apply the scale
factor that I calculated before.
If this is one, of course,
it's not going to do anything,
so it's fine.
If it's two,
it's going to make all the drawing
operations from here on in twice as big,
which is exactly what we want.
And as I exit,
I reset the sale so it's not accumulating
every time I come into this function.
So there's some things to consider.
The first is you are actually
going to use more memory,
four times as much memory.
And Beth mentioned why this
is important on some devices.
The drawing performance,
you're drawing to four
times as many pixels,
which is going to be a little bit slower.
So it's really up to you
to decide or to determine.
You might have the best idea of
what scale the user is actually
going to view their canvas at.
It might not be one-to-one.
If you think they're never going
to zoom in on this element,
you might not need a retina canvas.
There are some code and API changes
I'll get to at the moment.
So where are we in summary?
We always want to pick the one-to-one,
the same number of image
pixels as device pixels.
You have to check
whether you're on Retina,
in which case you're going to need
to double your back-end store.
And then if the system is going to
automatically double the back-end store,
you have to do it manually.
If the system isn't,
So in our progress chart,
we actually were having so much fun,
we skipped past one and now
we've covered two as well.
So the last thing to cover is
what are the actual code changes?
And there are three to cover.
So there's this very handy function
called ability in Canvas to be
able to access the pixels directly.
In most cases,
you just use the JavaScript draw
functions to draw shapes or whatever.
In this case,
you might want to access the pixels
and do something like increase the
brightness or set every other pixel
to red or something crazy like that.
So the idea is given a Canvas element,
you give a rectangle, a rectangle, x, y,
width, height, and it's going to extract
that rectangle and give you a
variable in your JavaScript,
which is the array of pixels there are.
And you can iterate over
that array and set the color.
Put image data does the same thing.
It takes that array after you've
possibly manipulated it and puts it
back into a region of the Canvas.
Now, it's important to note,
even on a retina display,
that these parameters to the
functions are actually in CSS pixels.
So what this means, if you ask,
for example, say,
for a 30x30 region on an
automatically doubled backing store,
it's actually going to take a 60x60
pixel region and squish it down into the
30x30 pixels and give it back to you.
So the image is sort of being compressed.
In the same way,
when you write a 30x30 pixel
image into put image data,
the system's going to take
that and stretch it out,
effectively making it blurry before
it's putting it into the canvas.
And the reason we did this is if you
look at most of the code on the Internet,
when people call get image
data XY width height,
they normally follow it up with something
like 4i equals 0 to width times height,
do something with those pixels.
So if we actually gave back more
pixels than they'd asked for,
then all that code would break and
we'd effectively destroy the Internet.
So what happens if you really
want access to the pixels?
We've added two functions.
So the first, the top ones are the ones
we're already familiar with.
The parameters are in CSS pixels.
If you want actual access to
whatever the backing store has,
use these new methods,
WebKit Get Image Data HD and
WebKit Put Image Data HD.
It's important for that to
remember that you need to be
aware of what region you are.
If you actually want the 30 by 30
region on an auto-double scale,
you need to make sure
you ask for 60 by 60.
The second thing to consider is when
you're drawing images into a canvas.
It's a pretty common thing to do,
but now we're in a situation where
we don't necessarily know how big the
canvas is that we're drawing into.
You should always,
as Beth mentioned before with CSS,
you should always specify width
and height for your images.
In fact,
there's one type of form of the draw
image command in Canvas which seems
really convenient where you just say,
here's my image in my XY position,
and it's going to put it into the canvas.
Let's say you're drawing
one canvas into another.
We don't actually know how many
pixels that image is going to cover,
so it's really important to
know exactly what the dimensions
of the output is going to be.
The last change is another
convenient function,
which is the ability to take a canvas
and extract it as an image file.
And this is useful if, say,
you've got an application that's
drawing onto the canvas and you want
to post the image up to your server.
So given a canvas,
you call this function toDataURL,
and it takes parameters of an image type,
but normally we just call it directly.
And it returns this
string of gobbledygook,
which is actually, for example,
in this case,
a ping image encoded as text.
Now, like the original
Get Image Data functions,
this function works in CSS pixels.
So if you are on an auto-double display,
you've got to get the
CSS pixels you requested,
not the full size of the back-end store.
So the three things to consider that
you might need to look for if your
retina canvas isn't quite working is new
methods for extracting the exact pixels,
if you need that.
Always specify your width and height,
and be careful when
you're using 2Data URL.
And with that, we've finished the canvas.
I'm going to invite Beth back.
Beth obviously doesn't know I've
found her secret stash of cookies,
and I'm still third in the ranking.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you, Dean.
That was great.
Okay, so as I'm sure you all know,
images are really an important part of
creating an immersive web experience.
And we understand that, too,
and that's why we've been talking
at you for 45 minutes now about
how to make sure your images
look fabulous on retina displays.
But in many cases,
web technologies are sophisticated enough
that you can use them in place of images.
Make WebKit do all of the work to make
sure it looks great on retina displays.
So I'm going to quickly take
you through three scenarios
where you can do just that.
First, I'll talk about making
image-free glossy buttons.
And then we'll talk about
letting text be text.
And finally, we'll discuss SVG.
So,
on my little Hawaiian vacation blog here,
I have this button,
and this is just a simple
input type equals button,
but if I wanted to style this to give it
a little bit more of that aloha spirit,
I would probably make it look like this.
And it's a very common technique on
websites when styling a form control
like this to use image assets.
And if that's what you do and
what you want to continue doing,
then I've taught you everything
that you need to know about how to
integrate high-resolution image assets.
But image assets are really a
bit brittle for such a small
UI element like this one.
If I wanted to change it
to make it a green button,
then I'd have to go change
all those image files,
the low-resolution ones and
the high-resolution ones.
Having image files for such a
small element is like a little
extra burden on the memory as well.
So wouldn't it be great
if I didn't need them?
Well, I don't.
And I made this button with CSS.
Let me show you what I did.
So I started with a div,
and I gave it some really
basic styles with height,
a border, and a size.
So I started with a div,
and I gave it some really
basic styles with height,
a border, and a size.
Purple background color,
white text centered the text.
All of this is really basic.
But now I'm going to show you what
I did to make this really come alive.
First,
I rounded the corners with border radius.
And then I gave the button a
little bit of extra depth using
shadow as a text shadow and a
box shadow on the button itself.
And finally,
to really make that button come alive
with that fully lickable appearance,
I gave it a background image
that's a WebKit-generated gradient.
That's all I really need
for this beautiful button.
It's worth noting that you can use this
technique to make buttons that look
exactly like the system buttons on iOS.
So this is a little web app
mockup of the Notes app,
and this button is created
in exactly the same way.
Okay, now let's jump to text.
So you may have noticed that I also
have this lovely masthead on my blog.
And you may have noticed that it
didn't get blurry when we looked
at my blog on the retina device,
unlike the image that's on this page,
which did get blurry.
And you may have expected it to get
blurry because many people make mastheads
like this with images because of the kind
of design control that they provide for
such an important UI element on my page.
Well, this didn't get blurry
because it's just text.
What I've done is that I have a
font that I have the ability to use.
All fonts have licenses
associated with them,
so you do have to make sure
you can use a font in this way
before you go ahead and do it.
And then I've just embedded it in my
CSS so that I can refer to it later.
It's very simple.
I've just used the at font face rule,
given it a font family name.
I could call it anything.
And then I'm using the
SRC property to point to where
I have that font file stored.
And then I can just refer back to that
font family name any time I want to,
the same way I would refer.
I can refer to any
other font family name.
The result is something that
looks great at all sizes,
so it scales really, really well.
On top of that, it's more accessible,
more searchable,
and more editable than what I had before.
Okay.
Finally, let's discuss SVG.
So SVG is a way,
it's like a set of instructions
for defining an image.
So it's entirely instruction-based
instead of being pixel-based
like other image formats.
That can sometimes limit the use case.
So SVG is a way to use a lot of
different interfaces for SVG,
but it still has tons of applications.
So rather than talk about it,
I'd rather show it to you.
I'd like to bring someone who knows a
thing or two about SVG back to the stage.
Okay, so as Beth mentioned,
SVG is an image format.
It's actually an image format,
it's a text format as well,
very similar to HTML.
And the techniques Beth showed before
about replacing a chunk of -- sorry,
collection of images with a chunk of CSS,
I've done the same thing here where
instead of replacing a chunk of images
I'm just referencing a single SVG file.
This is Beth's Hawaiian button.
And you can see that it actually
looks fine at any resolution.
If I pull up the inspector
-- I might have to make the
window a little bit bigger.
So here's my div.
I'll swap to the style
panel and collapse this one.
And you can see down here
that my background image
is just -- let me zoom in.
Nope.
You can see the background
image is just one SVG file.
If I open that SVG file
in its own window,
it's a little easier to see.
So the cool thing here is
that the browser or web kit is
actually deciding what resolution
it needs to draw the image,
and then creating the size -- you know,
the rectangular array of
pixels and just rendering the
SVG instructions directly into that.
Now I can actually edit this file.
It's pretty easy if
you're familiar with HTML.
You can see that really this one
image is made up of three rectangles,
one with a gradient.
So I can do something like
move my cursor up here.
And change the-- well, let's do this one.
Let's change the black stroke
to be something like orange.
Oops.
If I could type and save.
I'll just reload the page here.
And we've got the orange thing.
So that's pretty easy.
So you can see that actually
SVG is a great format to use and
it's going to apply to a whole
bunch of use cases and you're free
to use it wherever you need to.
So, Beth?
Well, okay, this is pretty cool, Dean.
But, you know, I just showed everybody
how to build this in CSS,
so can you, like, do something different?
Right, okay.
So what do you have in mind here?
I don't know, just something with a
little more pizzazz.
Okay.
Maybe something wavy.
Believe it or not,
I have something I prepared earlier.
So in this case,
I've got a little bit more complex SVG.
What I'm going to do here
is paste this element in.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, so here I've integrated
some SVG right into my HTML.
So I have an HTML file,
and I'm using an HTML input element,
and I'm decorating it using SVG.
So I have this really cool focus
ring that also scales really well,
and I can type into this file.
So as I demonstrated,
and Beth also demonstrated,
that SVG is a great image
format for some cases.
There are some things
you should be aware of.
It's not particularly well suited
to when you're going to display
the image at a very low size,
or very small size,
or very low resolution.
And you're probably familiar with this
type of thing when you think back to
8-bit arcade games where an artist wanted
to have exact control over every pixel.
And vector artwork doesn't
always give you that.
Designers often call this sort of like
pixel fitting or something like that.
But with that aside,
you might find that SVG is a really
handy image format to use for
all your multi-resolution needs.
Thank you, Beth.
Thanks, Dean.
Okay.
So you should really consider
some of these image alternatives.
They're a win on so many fronts.
You get all of that great retina goodness
that WebKit provides out of the box.
On top of that,
you'll often use less memory,
create something that's more accessible,
that's easier to edit down the line.
It's a great thing to consider
these other technologies.
Okay, so that's everything
we have for you today.
I just want to leave you
with a few of our key points.
Most things on Retina displays
are going to look great as is.
Images do need a little
bit of special attention,
and you want to make sure the
number of pixels in your image is
equal to the number of pixels that
will be available on the device,
and that's the way you'll
deliver the best experience.
You want to always give
images a width and a height.
And finally, remember to consider
those image alternatives.
I can't wait to see all
of the beautiful websites,
apps, and digital books that you all
create using these technologies.
If you have any additional questions,
you can contact our evangelist,
Vicki Murley.
There are a number of
related sessions here.
A couple of them have already happened,
and if you didn't see them,
I encourage you to check out the
videos when they're released.
And we still have a few more sessions
later today and tomorrow that
I strongly encourage you to attend.
Have a great conference.